# CS305-software-security

The client, Artemis Financial, is a consulting company that provides individualized financial plans for its customers' savings, retirement, investments, and insurance. Because they handle sensitive financial data and transactions, Artemis Financial asked me to evaluate their web application to identify any security vulnerabilities and create a mitigation plan. Ensuring the security of their software is crucial for companies like Artemis Financial to maintain the trust of their customers and uphold their legal obligations to keep their customers' information private. Vulnerabilities in the application were found using a combination of manual code review and static testing. Doing both is important because dependency checks only really surface the flaws, or at least potential flaws, built into the code that someone else has written. As developers, we do rely on previously written code, but the code that we write is equally important for security. It is essential for developers to be aware of, and implement, secure coding best practices in our daily work. I ensured that the code and software application were functional and secure by rigorously testing the components after refactoring them. It is important to not just test the 'happy paths' where everything goes exactly as planned and users behave exactly as they should, so I also researched common attacks that might be made against the application and tried to break or misuse my own code with those attacks in mind. To make sure that code changes don't introduce new bugs, it is very valuable to have a designated set of regression tests that can be run before and after changes are made. Building this type of test suite was outside of the scope of this project, but that is something I would definitely implement in the future.

This was a significant learning experience for me, because I had never used a lot of the security tools and resources required to execute this project. Having this experience leveraging the OWASP Dependency Check tool for Java projects and all of the resources that I used to look up CVEs and research solutions for known vulnerabilities will be really helpful going forward in my career as a software developer. That's not even mentioning the exposure that I gained to common attacks and how they can be prevented in code, which has already made me a better, more secure programmer. Some coding practices are relatively intuitive and can be absorbed naturally through experience. Something like SQL injection, for example, isn't particularly intuitive, but once the concept is introduced, it can be easily avoided in code. The biggest danger is always that you don't know what you don't know.  

There are a few things that I think I did particularly well in this project. Once vulnerabilities were found, I think I did a good job of representing the information in a clear and accessible way for the client. This information about specific dependencies, versions, and the details of reported vulnerabilities can be extremely technical. In fact, wading through that information to try to understand the exact circumstances that made a dependency vulnerable and to what types of attacks was one of the most challenging parts of generating this report. I tried to do a lot of work and research on my end to be able to provide the client with a technically accurate, but still readable, summary. The technical writing in this report is something that I would show a future employer from this project, because I think that in technology, whether it's software development, security, or something else entirely, one of the most important skills we can have is the ability to communicate our ideas and work to a wide variety of audiences.

 

 
